---
createdAt: 2022-06-16T15:40:38.831Z
title: Campaign
years:
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: true
    year: "251"
    overview: >-
      The party has settled into their new lives but the threat of the shadowmen
      and the mysterious Lady of Thorns looms over them.


      Muspella captures an orc named Batface Jim that had been infected by Darkweed. They learn that Greater Restoration will remove the infection but the spell requires Diamond Dust and they used the last of Ancient Eunice's supply. They also learn the location of a shadowmen fort called Twisted Knife. The fort is run by an orcish shadowman named Braxus and he commands two captains named Talon the truth seeker and Rigor the Boar.


      A were-rat goblin discovers the party on their path to Twisted Knife and offers them information in exchange for the tears they need to purify the tree of Corruption. They deceive the creature and learn that the Shadowmen are seeking a collapsed cave said to contain the body of Myrcella Roudgara's trueborn son and the vampiric childer of Torquil Von Demillo.
  - era: ae
    events:
      - month: "1"
        body: >-
          Muspella captures a darkweed-infected orc named Batface Jim. From him,
          they learn about a Shadowman fort not far from their grove called
          Twisted Knife. The fort is controlled by another orc-turned shadowman
          by the name of Braxxus, and the captains under his command are Talon
          the Truth Seeker, and Rigor the Boar.


          Remi discovers a method of curing the darkweed infection, a spell called Greater Restoration. However, the spell requires Diamond Dust. They use the last of Ancient Eunice's supply on Batface Jim in order to get him to talk.


          A were-rat goblin discovers the party on their path to Twisted Knife and offers them information in exchange for the tears they need to purify the tree of Corruption. They deceive the creature and learn that the Shadowmen are seeking a collapsed cave said to contain the body of Myrcella Roudgara's trueborn son and the vampiric childer of Torquil Von Demillo; Demetri.
      - month: "2"
        body: >-
          **A party divided**


          After the defeat of Braxxus and the fall of Fort Twisted Knife the party was given the choice of searching for the natural born son of Myrcella Roudgara or going with Ludwig the spriggan to purify the Blight Sister: Corruption.


          Unwilling to not do both; the, now warchief, Muspella took her barbarian warriors east to find the body of Tharon Roudgara. Hadrianna and Remi assembled a new party to head east into goblin territory to deal with Corruption.


          **Grip's Sudden but inevitable betrayal**


          Nate was contacted by a Grip, a green grung in hiding after his request for aid was denied by the Elder. Grip claimed that his people were under attack not only by the goblins but also 'Red Trees' with a taste for grung flesh. He also claimed to have contact with a man who could tell them how to find the Lost & Found in order to regain Remi's memories.


          The party agreed to aid his people in exchange for the information, but in the end, he attempted to lead them into an ambush. His betrayal was uncovered early, and after Hadrianna removed one of his arms, he agreed to help them ambush the ambush. Defeating the goblin were-rat Grung had attempted to betray them too, as well as the Red Trees. 


          So Grip made good on the information he promised and told them of a Necromancer living in an invisible tower on the way to the goblin city of Brown Water.


          **Crane Tower**


          On the way to the Bridge of Silence Remi discovered and dispelled a perimeter spell hiding a wizard's tower. Believing this to be the home of the mysterious man Grip claimed could help them find the Lost & Found; the party defeated the undead guardians and burst into the tower. Once inside they were greeted by a necromancer claiming to be Duncan Crane. After a freak accident seemingly reduced Nate to ashes the party uncovered the truth; Duncan Crane was being possessed by the disembodied soul of Eskar Banay. They managed to rescue the real Duncan Crane but Eskar escaped.


          R﻿emi asked Duncan about the Lost & Found, and was told


          > "All that is lost can be found in the fade, for a time. Eventually, the void consumes us all. As for the wretch seek, she appears to the desperate. Those who lose themselves in the search for what they lost. Never realizing they have so much more yet to lose. Have you lost something? Something you would give anything to find? Then seek the loneliest most forgotten shadows you can, and fill the darkness with your desperate hope. The scent will lure her but the fade is a big place, you will need to wait longer than you are willing. Just be careful that you don't yourself become the lost that she finds. The line between a client and merchandise is a fine one in the lost and found" - Duncan Crane


          **Fang joins the party**


          Leaving Crane Tower, the party happened upon a Grung transport being attacked by goblins. They swiftly defeated the goblins while the grung abandoned their slaves and fled deeper into the forest. Among the survivors was a ranger named Fang, after his gold tooth. While the captivity seemed to weaken the rest Fang was still hearty and asked to join them on their quest.


          **The Purification of Corruption**


          ﻿With the aid of Kwizbet and Duncan Crane, the party gets in contact with a goblin resistance group and uses them to capture some prominent goblins before they can be made "Unclean" by Corruption and turned into were-rats. Duncan then places the souls of the party into these goblins, allowing them to infiltrate the ceremony and get close enough to Corruption's tree to enact the purification ritual.


          **R﻿eturn of the Tarsy**


          P﻿urity has set about undoing the evils she wrought as Corruption. To this end, the goblins returned to their original form, a race unique to the forest; The Tarsy. 


          **T﻿he Swamps of Sorrow**


          T﻿here was one act Purity couldn't fix, the creation of a stain in the swamps of sorrow. So the party faced off against the teifling firbolgs that reside in the swamp and defeated the stain. Once again resisting its temptations, but discovering that this stain remembered them from the Lonely Inn.
      - month: "3"
        body: >-
          W﻿ith Purity now on their side a new grove is established in her
          territory and the party attempts to walk the fine political line of
          preparing to purify Betrayal and Misery without them having cause to
          take direct action to stop them.


          **T﻿he death of Muspella Stumpton**


          B﻿y the wail of a Banshee the party learns that their friend and ally Muspella has died. Though upon returning to Wolf Grove they find few answers as to how. After finding the bodies of Theordin and Demetri, she simply abandoned her fellow warriors in the dead of night.
    year: "251"
    overview: >-
      ## Chapter 2


      The party has settled into their new lives within Roudgara Forest but the threat of the shadowmen and the mysterious Lady of Thorns looms heavy over them.
    majorEvent: false
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "251"
    overview: >-
      ## C﻿hapter 3


      H﻿aving taken down Corruption and gaining an ally in Purity, the party now sets its eyes on Betrayal.
    events:
      - month: "3"
        body: >-
          **T﻿emptation of Hadriana**


          T﻿he Lady of Thorns, aka Betrayal, sends Edward Scornborn to find Hadriana and offer her an alliance. He is rejected and forced to flee the encounter, but not before it is discovered that he is the missing changeling child of Ludwig.


          **T﻿he Den Mother**


          C﻿reatures that could only have been born of the mysterious Den Mother's blood pits are discovered by the party. They put some down and in so doing save a 13 year old Pren named Ingred. They learn that the creatures have the ability to Rage and have been attacking druids of Mother's Grove. The party returns Ingred to safety and then continues to travel to Pyre Grove.


          **S﻿aved by the Lady of Thorns**


          D﻿uring a rest, Fang gets himself nearly eaten by a massive undead centipede. In their efforts to save him both Red and Remi find themselves perilously devoured as well. Hadriana does her best to keep the creature from burrowing away to digest her friends when The Lady of Thorns arrives and shreds the beast. Releasing her companions, she offers Hadriana her necklace to accept the role of being her chosen. Hadriana once again refuses her.


          **T﻿he Battle of Scorched Keep**


          W﻿ith the aid of Pyre Grove the party launches an assault on Scorched Keep, a fortification in the black. They hope to find the missing codes to operate the teleporter discovered in Twisted Knife. During the assault, they discover that the forces of Scorched Keep are led by members of The Crimson Guard infected by Dark Weed. The leader of Scorched Keep, Gareth Sunram, attempts to bring the conflict to a diplomatic end, proposing an alliance and trying to convince the party that the Lady of Thorns is the betrayed not the betrayer.  


          T﻿he conversations are cut short, however, as the curse of the crimson armor takes hold and Gareth Sunram flies into a rage. The battle is fierce and the party is forced to flee, but not before Remi tosses a bomb in the room. An act that literally turned the tide of the battle, as the explosion claims the life of Gareth. However, his wife Susan and a fellow crimson guard named Sanson manage to escape.


          D﻿uring this battle, Ludwig was also able to rescue his son Edward Scornborn.


          **R﻿emi & Roger**


          R﻿emi called in the aid of Roger during the battle of Scorched Keep as creatures from the ethereal realm had joined the attack in service to the Lady of Thorns. The creature was powerful enough that it very nearly killed Roger. Though he managed to survive it, Remi agreed to owe him a debt. She was given a list of names that she must hunt down for Roger so that he may reap them. The first name on the list was Duncan Crane.


          **T﻿he Petrification of Fang**


          R﻿eturning to Pyre Grove, the party is disconnected and at odds. Though they won the battle of Scorched Keep, it was very nearly a loss. To make matters worse, during a Renown Fire put on by the grove Fang decided to participate. In so doing he blasphemed against the Spirit Mother. The next day the party found him petrified but still alive. More tree than man, the Mother's vengeance could not be undone. He now resides with Purity until a solution can be found. Remi's final words to him were “I hope you have some peace now, I hope it doesn’t hurt”.


          **Amnesty Grove**


          I﻿t is discovered that Thaishin had been working all this time on establishing a new grove, not within the forest but near Tor. Muspella had prayed near an old mass grave on their original travels to Tor which caused a tree to grow on the spot. Thaishin used this miracle to establish his new grove and brought new people into the service of The Spirit Mother. Thaishin was then sent to Ravished to pursue his chosen duty; kill Torquill Von Demillo.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "251"
    overview: |-
      ## C﻿hapter 4

      A﻿ forest at war.
    events:
      - month: "4"
        body: >-
          ## Hadriana becomes Grand Elder of Purity's territory

          T﻿he truth about the Spirit Mother now made clear to everyone who fled from Wolf Grove, Hadriana is the natural choice to lead.


          #﻿# Death of Eunice

          E﻿unice Oakborn arrives at purity grove but something is off, for starters she has no soul. Once confronted she attacks Remi with a concoction that turns her to stone. During the battle, it is revealed that Eunice is just a shell for a head hunter spider hiding in her neck. A tactic of infiltration used by the Spirit Mother. Before she died Eunice informed the party that those who would not bow to the mother in wolf grove were killed.


          #﻿# Banishment of the Pren

          T﻿he Spirit Mother wasted no time spreading propaganda about the conflict at Wolf Grove and blamed it all on Hadriana and the Pren family. All Pren are now considered enemies of the mother.


          #﻿# Therodin is made Grant Elder of Roudgara Forest

          T﻿herodin Roudgara, the natural born son of Myrcella Roudgara, is removed from his ancient curse and placed in charge of the Spirit Mother's territory.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: true
    year: "250"
    overview: >-
      **The End of the Grim War**


      Wearing the enchanted flayed faces they discovered in Castle Tor to mask their appearance the party is able to enter the Uruk city of Tektima. Once inside they ingratiated themselves with the locals, uncovered the artifact Grim Gash used to claim the Uruk's loyalty and turn the Uruk against the Orcs. In so doing they also rescued 11 captives from their home and learned that Wolf Grove had already fallen to Grim Gash.


      With the help of Kwizbet the party returns to Roudgara forest where they are reunited with old friends and join the fight against the Orcs.


      While retaking Wolf Grove from the Grim Horde, Grim Gash and Lebanon Glambrina arranged a secret meeting in the Spirit Garden. The party, heavily weakened by prolonged battle, made it just in time to witness Lebanon handing the baby Elpis over to Grim Gash. A band of Shadowmen behind her and Gerald Stumpton at her side. Lebanon, Gerald, and the shadowmen departed shortly after, having already planted the black violescent or 'Dark Weed'. Grim Gash left a small group of orcs and one unpaid troll behind to fend off his pursuers to make his own escape. The party dealt with them while the Spirit Mother attacked the dark weed with lightning and rain to try and prevent its spread. Giving her druids time to arrive. Meanwhile, the Barbarians patrolling the outskirts of the forest on Muspella's orders encountered and subdued Grim Gash with the aid of a Spider Bear.


      The war, now known as the Grim War, comes to an end.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "250"
    events:
      - month: "12"
        body: >-
          Wearing the enchanted flayed faces they discovered in Castle Tor to
          mask their appearance the party is able to enter the Uruk city of
          Tektima. Once inside they ingratiated themselves with the locals,
          uncovered the artifact Grim Gash used to claim the Uruk's loyalty and
          turn the Uruk against the Orcs. In so doing they also rescued 11
          captives from their home and learned that Wolf Grove had already
          fallen to Grim Gash.


          With the help of Kwizbet the party returns to Roudgara forest where they are reunited with old friends and join the fight against the Orcs.


          While retaking Wolf Grove from the Grim Horde, Grim Gash and Lebanon Glambrina arranged a secret meeting in the Spirit Garden. The party, heavily weakened by prolonged battle, made it just in time to witness Lebanon handing the baby Elpis over to Grim Gash. A band of Shadowmen behind her and Gerald Stumpton at her side. Lebanon, Gerald, and the shadowmen departed shortly after, having already planted the black violescent or 'Dark Weed'. Grim Gash left a small group of orcs and one unpaid troll behind to fend off his pursuers to make his own escape. The party dealt with them while the Spirit Mother attacked the dark weed with lightning and rain to try and prevent its spread. Giving her druids time to arrive. Meanwhile, the Barbarians patrolling the outskirts of the forest on Muspella's orders encountered and subdued Grim Gash with the aid of a Spider Bear.


          The war, now known as the Grim War, comes to an end.
      - month: "11"
        body: >-
          **The Lonely Inn**

          \[Coming Soon]



          **Gates of Castle Tor**

          The party battled their way across the undead covered bridge to the magically sealed gates of Tor. Along the way Muspella was beaten down and crushed to death only to be returned by death himself, Earnest Clay. In opening the gate it was revealed that Thaishin, not Muspella, had demon blood coursing in his veins. Shortly after that revelation Thaishin was called away by the Spirit Mother to complete some mysterious task.



          **Lost & Found**

          \[Coming Soon]



          **Unearthed Secrets**

          Tor was a land lost to shadow and where the horrors of the past still reverberate as echo's of the long dead. It was here the party learned of Torquill's true fear, Dragon Blood. They obtained dragon blood by uncovering an ancient slumbering dragon named Fetek, the source of Hadriana's own arcane heritage. By consuming his blood she unlocked more of her power and powers yet to come.
      - month: "10"
        body: >-
          **Isaterra falls to Corruption**


          One of the Blight Sisters revealed herself by claiming the body of Isaterra and attacking the party. The conflict only ended when a creature named Farlan shoved Isaterra into a shadow portal, vowing to save her and urging her friends to defeat the Blight Sisters back in the forest.


          **Remi joins the group**


          While camping a Tabaxi named Remnants of History found the group. As an old friend of Bulgar, she decided to travel with them to Orcus where she worked as a blacksmith.


          **Immaculate Conception**


          Hadriana reveals that she has been dreaming of angels, or at least one specifically named Justice. She then leads the group to a small orkin farmhouse. The family welcomes them in to stay and break bread but as the food hits the table their very pregnant daughter goes into labor. Remi and Hadriana assist the birth and mere moments after the new mother greats her smiling boy it fades from view. Remi collects the placenta.


          **Gnoll Slavers and a Familiar Face**


          Before the party can meet with King Goruk Ukatie of the Bronze Horde they are instructed to deal with a gnoll problem in a nearby village. There they defeat the gnolls, but also scare off a villain named 'The dullahan'. When the dust settles they realize one of the slaves being sold by the gnolls was Gurahl. He confesses that the shadowmen kidnapping of Isaterra and Hadriana was a shadowmen plot to get a darkweed planted in the soul garden and that it was Lebanon Glambrina, the seer of Umbrage Grove, that arrived after their escape with another man Gurahl did not know. This man was able to return Gurahls legs by grafting them back on. Lebanon then brought him back to Umbrage Grove. Gurahl may have had more to say but he fled during the Dullahan attack.


          **Meeting with King Goruk Ukatie**


          Goruk reveals that Grim Gash stole artifacts from the treasury and that the alliance between the Grim Horde and the Uruk may be magical in nature. It is also revealed that the leadership of the Bronze Horde are also dragon-blooded sorcerers much like Hadriana. Goruk even reveals his own bronze dragon wings to her. The baby, Elpis, is believed by the Grim Horde to be a child of prophecy and their attacks on the forest are to reclaim the child.
      - month: "9"
        body: >-
          **Travel to Knossos**


          Here the party reunites with Killian and completes the minotaur's labyrinth to speak with the king. Noting Muspella's relationship with Gerald Stumpton (who is revealed to have originally been from Knossos) and his friend Tiat Honorskull (who is revealed to have once been the king of Knossos) the party is given the services of Bulgar a minotaur diplomat who will ensure they get a meeting with the king of the orcs.
      - month: "8"
        body: >-
          **Travel to Glandor**


          Muspella reveals that before they left Gerald Stumpton had given her a ring found with her as a baby, and since putting the ring on she has been hearing a voice claiming to be her father. The voice claimed the lich of Glandor owed him a favor and he intended to cash it in to be resurrected into a fresh body. Along the way, the party encountered halfling farmers who oversaw fields tended to by the walking dead. They learned that it was these halflings the Gnolls sold The Evil tainted waters of the forest to, and that by using the water to animate the dead they were able to revitalize the soil despite the raging storm of wild magic.


          Upon meeting with Victor Dark the party is sent on a quest to rid the west wing of an old ghost while the lich prepared the ritual. However, in this land the party could not feel the connection to their Spirit Mother nor could they summon her for a renown fire. Their dreams were tormented as well and when the time came to resurrect Muspella's father she instead smashed the ring and all watched in horror as the soul, now free of its protections, was claimed by a ghostly hand.
      - month: "7"
        body: >-
          **Travel to the Centaur Nation**


          Once the party has proven themselves they are allowed to travel across the Forgotten Valley using special bunkers set up by the Keepers. The wild magic storm is extremely dangerous and they must keep up their pace to not be caught in the storm overnight. During their early travels, they encounter a badly injured centaur who was on a hunt to form his own herd. The party heals the centaur and assists him in defeating a giant lightning boar, then returns him to his village. Thaishin impresses the centaur shaman with the gifts of the Spirit Mother by enriching the soil around the village. Muspella bests a centaur warrior in an honor duel but in her rage nearly kills him. Luckily Isaterra was there for an easy healing and the party rests enjoying the company of the centaurs. Before they venture on to their next stop Muspella reveals that she has need to go to Glandor, a place of death ruled by a Lich named Victor Dark. Killian refuses to accompany a fool's errand. Instead, he takes away stone with him to their next stop, the minotaur city of Knossos, so that they lose as little time as possible in their quest.
      - month: "6"
        body: >-
          **Travel to Keeper's March**


          The party spends some time at Keeper's March where they are given better weapons and tasked with proving themselves capable of surviving No Man's Land and The Storm of wild magic that rages within the Forgotten Valley. During this time Hadriana gets a job as a chef at the local tavern and grows closer to Killian despite his sister's objections, Muspella meets a minotaur named Tiat Honorskull whom she had only known from campfire stories told to her growing up by Gerald Stumpton and attacks a member of the local clergy for refusing to heal an injured grafter, Hadriana convinces a grafter to help disguise her draconic wings to appear grafted on rather than a natural part of her, Kwizbet lays low as a cat to remain hidden from the Spires outpost within Keeper's March while keeping busy in the study of arcane tattoos with a grafter named Thor. Finally, the party is introduced to Corwyn, leader of Keeper's March, and informed that there was recently a schism within the Bronze Horde to the east but that they would need to speak with them to learn more. In order to do that, they would need the help of a minotaur from Knossos as the orcs still harbor old hatreds from the Dragon Wars and would not let them near without a diplomat.
      - month: "5"
        body: >-
          **Start of the Grim War**


          With the return of Chloe, Killian must return to his people but upon learning of the orc's alliance with the Uruk, a human tribe from the Forgotten Valley, he becomes more concerned. The orcs hate the Uruk and vice versa as the Uruk were once servants of the orc who broke free following the Dragon Wars. After some debate, the party is given the choice of remaining to deal with the grung alliance or departing with Killian to investigate the orc threat. They chose to go with Killian.


          Melyn Pren arrives to meet the party, and lays eyes on his granddaughter Hadriana, for the first time. He requests that they take Kwizbet with them before leading the group on a vision quest. The very personal vision quest unites and bonds the party as they work together to conquer each other's doubts and fears. During this quest, the group encounters a vision of The God King Torquil, dragon slayer, of Ravished. He taunts the party, severing Hadriana's left wing from her back and killing Thaishin. A warning of quests to come and the power that will be required to best the mother's immortal foe.
      - month: "4"
        body: >-
          **An Outsider Arrives**


          **Killian**

          Killian, a member of Keepers of the Dark, was captured by Gerald Stumpton and brought back to the grove. While tradition dictates he be killed, the party negotiated with their elders to learn more about him. It was revealed that he only came to the forest in search of his sister Chlo. She had been taken captive by gnolls to be sold to the grung. The party arranged to purchase Chlo back from the grung by trading a very potent poison called Midnight Tears.



          **The Evil**

          During the rescue of Chlo, the party finds the band of gnolls that had captured her in the first place. They are shipping barrels of water out to the Forgotten Valley. Muspella, in her rage, causes one of the barrels to burst; spilling the water upon the ground. Thaishin and Isaterra instantly recognize the cursed water as being tainted with The Evil. It takes the grove Elders to contain the spillage and prevent the corruption from spreading. Amid the gnoll belongings, they also find notes that reveal the gnolls were buying the water from the grung to sell in a place called Glandor out in the Forgotten Valley.
      - month: "3"
        body: >-
          **The Hermit**


          Hadriana was informed by her father that a hermit living in the forest would be able to help her learn the secrets of her sorcerous magic. The party found the hermit on their way to Umbrage Grove. The transmutation wizard, in hiding from 'The Spires', introduced himself as Kwizbet. The old man agreed to mentor Hadriana out of respect for her late mother. He had been sent by 'The Spires', a community of wizards, to investigate rumors of witchcraft in the woods. Upon meeting Hadriana's mother, the wizard chose a life in exile over turning her in.


          **Umbrage Grove**


          The group traveled to the neighboring grove of Umbrage, who also worship the Spirit Mother, and met a band of their residents. They met Lebanon Glambrina the Magnificent, the seer, Edward Scornborn, the elder, and a few lower-ranking citizens as well. Among these was Gurahl, who had two legs that seemed to have never been removed. No explanation for his presence was uncovered.


          **Hadriana finds Moira**


          Hadriana was informed by Edward Scornborn that there is another way to bond with beasts beyond The Great Hunt. Using that information, she struck a deal with a raven named Moira. Moira agreed to watch over and serve her in exchange for shiny things. Upon Hadriana's death, her ring of disguise will belong to Moira.
      - month: "2"
        body: >-
          **Goblins and Grung**


          Goblins were caught stealing fish from the grove, and Hadriana's father requested that the group deal with them. In doing so, they discovered that the goblins were hungry runaway slaves to the grung. The party nearly caused a political incident before learning that the grung was an ally of the grove, and followers of the Spirit Mother. The group expressed their disdain forallying with slavers to the elders of Wolf Grove, to little effect.


          **The Blight Sisters**


          Returning from the tree cities of the grung, Hadriana found a gold coin. Soon after, she began turning to gold, starting with the hand that took the coin. In search of the coin's origins, the group found themselves in front of an old ruin where they met Ludwig the Leprechaun. He informed them of the Blight Sisters - three cursed dryads of the forest named Corruption, Betrayal, and Misery. Ludwig believed that finding each Blight Sister's tree and purifying it would re-open the forest gates into the Feywild, allowing him to finally go home.
      - month: "1"
        body: >-
          #### The Campaign Begins


          **The Great Hunt**


          When a member of Wolf Grove graduates from their basic training they are sent on a hunt. They must use what they have learned to claim the life of a great beast, which they then serve at the evening feast. In this way, they not only prove themselves to the Spirit Mother, but also to the beasts. Some believe that the beast chooses you as much as you choose them. Once the ritual has been completed and the feasting done, a bond is formed between the hunter and their chosen prey. Muspella brought back a wolf, Thaishin a panther, and Isaterra a spider. Hadriana, being of noble descent, received no training and did not participate in the hunt.


          **Orcs**


          During the hunt, Muspella and Thaishin discovered the first signs of orcs in the forest. Unaware of what they were, they returned home straight away to inform Gerald Stumpton, Muspella's adopted father and grove scout.


          **The Spirit Gardens**


          With the hunt complete, the party was assembled and sent to a secret location within the forest called The Spirit Gardens. As druids, Isaterra and Thaishin were directed to plant their soul seeds, binding themselves to the forest. It was here that Hadriana met the soul tree of her mother, and thus learned the truth of her heritage.


          **More Orcs**


          In the weeks that followed, Gerald Stumpton organized the scouts and warriors of Wolf Grove against the orcs, rousting them from their hiding places. Muspella, Hadriana, Thaishin, and Isaterra were selected by Elder Priscilla Oakborn to serve and train together as a single unit. While scouting, they uncovered a 3 legged dire wolf who had just escaped a bear trap left by orcs. They healed the wolf, then tracked the invading horde back to camp where they utilized the orcs' own crates of alchemist fire against them. Finding that one of the enemies had been pregnant, Isaterra used her impressive knowledge of medicine to save the baby from its dead mother's womb. With more orcs after them, they immediately rendezvoused with Gerald Stumpton to fend off their pursuers and were able to bring the dire wolf and baby safely back to Wolf Grove.


          **Kidnapped by Shadowmen**


          Once free of the orcs, the group began the journey back to Wolf Grove. During the night, after setting up camp and heading to sleep, Isaterra and Hadriana were taken. Upon awakening, they found themselves in The Black - a place they had been raised to steer clear of. They had been captured by shadowmen. They escaped with the help of Gurahl, a member of Umbrage Grove to the south. His legs had been cut off by the shadowmen, so they had no choice but to leave him behind.


          **Naming of Elpis and Vidar**


          Rejoined once again with Thaishin and Muspella, the group finally made it back home. Once there, they named the baby orc Elpis and the dire wolf Vidar
  - era: be
    year: "1130"
    overview: Based on Torquill's Journal the event known as the Sundering may have
      taken place around this time. You have heard of this event from several
      ancient creatures. It has been claimed that during this event the Gods
      were banished and the world was tossed into chaos. Torquill's account
      suggests that he may have been involved in that event. He also names
      others, Chasm, and Soul Huntre.
    majorEvent: true
  - era: be
    year: "1125"
    overview: >-
      "In victory, we learn the short-sighted nature of the struggle. Let us be
      clear that no authority exists without serving a function. It is very
      important to understand what that is **BEFORE** you overthrow them!


      It would seem that without the bindings of flesh, or the tiring ache of entropy, the mouths of ghosts never grow weary. Chasm holds to Soul Huntre's plan and delights in the slaughter but how he can stand the mountain of dead that surely must bark at his heels, I have no idea. I only hope they find a solution soon, even the blood of this world tastes sad." 


      *\- from the journal of Torquill Von Demillo*
  - era: be
    year: "1100"
    overview: >-
      "Something has gone terribly wrong and of course, Soul Huntre is nowhere
      to be found! Some great darkness is spreading across the sky, it is so
      much harder to eat when the cattle are spooked!


      Chasm be damned the dark elf still revels in this curse, so long as he has blood to spill. At least the void appears to take the ghosts with it. With each new world, I gain a temporary reprieve."


      *\- from the journal of Torquill Von Demillo*
  - era: be
    year: "1070"
    overview: >-
      "Gods be damned I dream of a world without fucking liches. Do I remain to
      die here or endure the indignity of being saved by a lich.... or do I
      chance the astral bridge? It's no wonder the Liches forsake their skin,
      this world confines me enough without all this flesh binding me even
      tighter."


      *\- from the journal of Torquill Von Demillo*
  - era: be
    year: "1000"
    overview: >-
      "It’s been a mere 130 years since we celebrated Soul Huntre's victory and
      how hollow a victory it has been. Still, The devourer has finally been
      satisfied. Better yet Skatvold had to sacrifice himself to fix our
      mistakes! I can't help but feel that the lack of a sunset was done to
      spite me, but I'll take the win. Time to find a way out of this world.


      I need to establish a kingdom if I'm to remain fed, these creatures can't seem to do much else but die and their blood is soured with fear and disease. A kingdom to pen the herd and breed sweeter stock is the only way."


      *\- from the journal of Torquill Von Demillo*


      Ludwig the Leprechaun claimed it was during this time, or perhaps before, that the Blight Sisters were created by his friend Tut. He did so due to an 'incurable plague'. You know that Tut is a Satyr and the father of the three sisters.


      Ludwig the Leprechaun told you that he believes the creation of the Blight Sisters had something to do with the 'faery gates' closing. This means that would have happened around this time as well. Ludwig hopes that by purifying them, the gates will re-open and he can go home.


      It is also at this time that the kingdom of Tor is established. Founded by Torquill Von Demillo who united the region under his rule.
  - era: be
    overview: >-
      "Has it been truly so long since my last entry? Years slip past me as
      months once did. The bitten breeds of vampires local to this world now
      plague me as moths to a flame. The sun burns them, and their heads are as
      easy to remove as any other. Perhaps its true that weakness starts in the
      mind.


      Their blood, however, does not carry the taint of disease. Though I've routed most of the plague from my lands the flavor lingers still in the livestock. Yet I am nothing if not adaptable. The Lycans that plague my woods and hunt my streets were as quickly fooled as any other. Now they hunt for me. Soon I'll have a proper wine cellar fitting a man of my stature. I must endeavor to write more, and savor my time.


      *\- from the journal of Torquill Von Demillo*
    year: "500"
    majorEvent: false
  - era: be
    majorEvent: true
    year: "300"
    overview: >-
      #### A New Dawn


      Historians mark this date as when the turmoil of the Dark Age came to an end. Largely due to advancements in medicine.
  - era: be
    majorEvent: true
    overview: >-
      #### The Dragon Wars Begin


      Uralom, the red, roars from the top of the Charred Mountain. Claiming all below those mountain peaks as his own.
    year: "50"
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    year: "49"
    overview: >-
      "How this world shrinks. Urroth was once the name of this entire world but
      the locals know that word only to describe this one lonely continent. Fear
      has taken the oceans from them and now dragon's have been spotted off the
      coats and in the mountains to the north. Have they eaten everything else?
      I killed a man today who i swear I've killed before. Several times
      perhaps. Chasm would have me believe the process of rebirth is working
      fine but he doesn't taste them as I do. Like soured wine the lot of them."


      *\- from the journal of Torquill Von Demillo*
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    overview: >-
      #### The Fall of Elderahl Forest


      Mutar, the green, begins his campaign to harvest the people of Elderahl Forest in order to create legions of Infernals. The Irishne elves of Elderahl forest call for aid, but none answer. 


      #### Earliest Accounts of Myrcella Roudgara


      Among those that left the forest to seek aid was an elven woman named Myrcella Roudgara. She went to Tor first, but upon being denied, she went south to the Whispering Forest. A forest that is now knows as the Roudgara Forest.
    year: "47"
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    year: "44"
    overview: >-
      #### The Fall of the Four Nations


      With Mutar's war upon Elderahl Forest completed and the Irishne elves extinct; Uralom and Mutar begin their assault on the Four Nations. Great human kingdoms that border the forest. Despite having several years to prepare, they are no match for the Infernal hordes of Mutar.
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    year: "40"
    overview: >-
      #### The Arrival of the Orcs


      The Bronze Horde, an unknown people to the continent of Urroth, arrive by great ships from distant lands. To this day, we do not know from where the orc's originated. They were led by a fearsome chief known only as the Bronze Orc. They sack the lands off the coast south of the Four Nations, lands that they still control to this day, and raiding parties begin to invade Mutar's lands to the north.
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    year: "38"
    overview: >-
      "No sooner would I cheer the fall of the 4 nations and their coliseums to
      Uralom than would Orcs arrive to sack my coastal villages! Orcs!? Like
      roaches, they crawl out of the filth even here… They sailed in on boats,
      but from where? If the Dragon's and the Orcs wish for these lands, do they
      leave their old lands empty or is this expansion? Imagine an eternity of
      Orc blood? Am I truly so damned… thousands of years I've fought to stay
      alive only for the world to give out at my feet?"


      *\- from the journal of Torquill Von Demillo*
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    overview: >-
      #### The Arrival of Fetek and the Fall of Tor


      The Kingdom of Tor suffers a surprise and swift defeat to a previously unknown dragon named Fetek, the black. Hordes of Mutar's Infernals marched from the conquered Four Nations to join Fetek and crush Tor.


      The King of Tor, Torquill Von Demillo, escapes the attack. It is known he retreats south to the kingdom of Ferenia.


      The Bronze Horde joins the resistance in Glandor to stand against Fetek and the Infernal Hordes.
    year: "20"
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    year: "18"
    overview: |-
      #### The Fall of Glandor

      Despite the aid of the Bronze Horde, Glandor is left in ruins.
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    year: "17"
    overview: >-
      #### Torquill Von Demillo claims Ferenia


      Torquill Von Demillo takes over the kingdom of Ferenia with promises of mounting a defense. A popular line of rhetoric for the scores of refugees forced to flee into the region.
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    year: "15"
    overview: >-
      #### Orom Claims Helles Lichet


      Helles Lichet, a central kingdom on Urroth, is claimed by the silver dragon Orom. A dragon as old and fearsome as Uralom but with promises of defeating his counterparts and co-existance.


      Fetek, ignores the threat building south of Tor in Ferenia, and begins mounting an attack on Helles Lichet almost immediately.
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    overview: >-
      #### The Defeat of Fetek


      Fetek is quickly defeated by Orom at Helles Lichet. The Bronze Horde joins Orom in defense of the kingdom, and it is during this battle that The Bronze Orc is revealed to be a bronze dragon masquerading as an Orc. 


      Fetek falls back to Tor in disgrace. Shortly after Uralom flies down from the Charred Mountains and into Tor. Many believe he fought and killed Fetek at this time.
    year: "14"
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    overview: >-
      #### The Lonely Inn


      A group of Infernals arrives at an Inn on the edge of Tor. They brutally murder everyone inside in order to create a Stain.


      #### The Time of Atrocities


      The Time of Atrocities begins in Ferenia. A time when necromancy was made legal within the military of Ferenia. Torquill plans to use the scores of dead as a weapon against the Dragons.
    year: "10"
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    year: "5"
    overview: >-
      #### The Final Battle


      Torquill and his army of undead march on Tor to face Uralom. He is joined by Orom's angelic forces from Helles Lichet and the Bronze Horde. As well as an order of dragon hunter's known as The Keepers of the Dark.


      Torquill's wizards enact a ritual during the battle that banishes Orom, Uralom, and their Infernal and Angelic hordes.


      The Keepers of the Dark slay the Bronze Orc. An act the orcs of the Bronze Horde have yet to forgive.


      In the aftermath of the battle, an arcane storm forms in the skies overhead and spreads across the Forgotten Valley. Where it still rages today.
  - era: be
    majorEvent: false
    overview: >-
      The Death Spire erupts from the earth under the eye of arcane storm in the
      Forgotten Valley


      Shadows spread across the lands surrounding Castle Tor.


      Keeper's March is officially established. It's authority over the Forgotten Valley is first recognized by Ravished.
    year: "1"
  - era: be
    majorEvent: true
    year: "0"
    overview: >-
      #### Exodus


      Only 5 years after the defeat of Uralom and Orom all dragons are hunted to extinction.


      The humanoid races spread out and once again settle the known world.


      Torquill, now a mythic hero, peacefully claims the kingdom of Ferenia as his own. He is crowned 'The God King Torquill, dragon slayer'.


      Under Torquill's rule the Kingdom of Ferenia is renamed to the Kingdon of Ravished. Necromancy is also banned and Ravished promises never to raise an army of undead again.


      Humanoid slaves break free from the Bronze Horde and settle within Blodwood bordering the Forgotten Valley. They would become known as the Uruk.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "1"
    overview: >-
      #### The Whispering Rebellion Begins


      Myrcella Roudgara's druids in the Whispering Forest begin to speak out against 'The Evil' created by Torquill's necromancers, and spread rumors of the God King being a vampire.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "3"
    overview: >-
      #### The Whispering Rebellion


      The druids, led by Myrcella Roudgara, of the Whispering Forest, escalate their attacks against Ravished.


      #### Formation of The Crimson Guard


      Willow Lee, mother of Muspella, strikes a deal with a tempter demon named Adam Lee to create the enchanted crimson armor.


      Torquill marches into the forest to put down the terrorist druids. He debuts The Crimson guard in the attack.


      #### The Death of Myrcella Roudgara and Rise of The Spirit Mother


      Myrcella Roudgara is defeated and burned upon a tree sacred to her people. Torquill is said to have personally lit the flame. From her ashes, the Spirit Mother is born.


      In Ravished: This victory is celebrated every year in a fire festival. During this festival, the forest is burned back away from the city.


      In The Forest: Every year the birth of the Spirit Mother is celebrated on a holiday known as "Mother's Day".


      #### The Whispering Forest is Renamed


      Following these events the forest was renamed from the "Whispering Forest" to the "Roudgara Forest" and all access to the forest is banned by Ravished.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "50"
    overview: >-
      #### The Lich of Glandor


      Glandor is claimed by a lich named Victor Dark. His goal is to revitalize the farm land using undead labor that can withstand, or be more cheaply replaced after, the ravages of The Storm.


      #### The Uruk


      The First Voice of the Uruk goes silent. Gamora is locked away within a tower and never seen again. Her father, Ishtar, declares himself the Second Voice while wearing a magical crown that connects him to all of his people.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "100"
    overview: >-
      #### Rise of the Centaur Nation


      The Centaur Nation is officially recognized by Keeper's March within the Forgotten Valley.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: true
    year: "200"
    overview: >-
      #### The Renaissance


      A period marked by historians as the turning point when civilization had recovered and is now progressing.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "215"
    overview: >-
      #### The Rise of Knossos


      The underdark minotaur city of Knossos rises in the Forgotten Valley. Among the minotaur who survived are three dwarves; Gerald Stumpton, Ruby Bloodstone, Nickel Loadstone


      Tiat Honorskull and Gerald Stumpton forge an alliance between Knossos and the Centaur Nation. With the aid of the centaurs, the minotaur learns to control and harness their rage. The teachings are called 'The Path of Peace'.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    overview: >-
      #### Tiat Honorskull named King of Knossos


      Uat Bonesplitter rejects Tiat Honorskull and the path of peace. Tiat defeats him in single combat, cementing the future of the minotaur as diplomats. Bonesplitter becomes a shunned surname within Knossos.


      Tiat Honorskull is named King of Knossos, but his interest in the surface world keeps him from the throne. Leaving his queen, Symphony Honorskull, to do most of the ruling.
    year: "216"
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    overview: >-
      #### Kuvrack Bloodfist named King of Knossos


      Ruby Bloodstone enacts a plot to kill king Tiat Honorskull but only manages to kill his queen and children. The motivation for the attack was not clear, but in his grief King Tiat Honorskull forced his friend Gerald Stumpton to deliver the punishment against his own kind. Nickel tried to stop the execution but was put down in the ensuing struggle.


      Gerald, kneeling in the blood of the fallen Nickel, pleaded with Tiat to spare Ruby. She was all that he had left of his own people. Tiat gave the order to merely banish Ruby from Knossos. Ruby, still enraged, departed cursing Gerald as a traitor to his people.


      Following these events Gerald Stumpton also departed Knossos. Later that year he found his way to the Roudgara Forest and proved himself to useful Wolf Grove. Despite being an outsider.


      Tiat Honorskull, having lost his taste for power, gave up his crown and also left Knossos.


      Kuvrack Bloodfist becomes king of Knossos.
    year: "218"
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "220"
    overview: >-
      #### Gerald Stumpton finds a baby in the forest


      Muspella, born Annabel Lee to Willow & Adam Lee, is found in the forest and raised by the barbarian war chief of Wolf Grove; Gerald Stumpton
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "225"
    overview: >-
      #### A Wedding in Ravished


      The witch Willow Lee weds King Dominic Demillo and becomes Queen of Ravished.
  - era: ae
    majorEvent: false
    year: "230"
    overview: >-
      #### Peace in the Forbidden Valley


      The minotaur of Knossos broker a treaty between the Bronze Horde and their long hated enemy the Keeper's. The treaty prevents Keeper's form entering orc territory without a minotaur escort and makes hunting wyverns illegal. In exchange, the Orcs engage in trade and agree to honor the valley as Keeper territory.


      #### The Lonely Inn


      Tad Bronson visits the Lonely Inn where he betrays Howard Hill to the Stain.
---
