content/characters/muspella-stumpton-annabelle-lee.md, before:

---
thumbnail: /img/muspella-token.png
name: Muspella
subtitle: Profaned, Slave Killer, Adopted daughter of Gerald Stumpton, Barbarian
  of Wolf Grove
type: pc
status: dead
metaDescription: Muspella was part of the original party, but fate had other
  plans and she perished under mysterious circumstances.
---
Found as a baby by Gerald Stumpton, Muspella was raised in the ways of the Barbarian. 

While Gerald, and many in the forest, believed her unusual features were a blessing of the forest, Muspella had a darkness within her that made her rage especially raw. Her training was often less about learning to express her rage, but to harness and direct it productively.

It wasn't until her naming day, during a Vision Quest, that the truth of her heritage as one of the profane began to reveal itself. The result of her true parents (Adam and Willow Lee) combined evil deeds. For it was her parents, a mage and a tempter demon, that created the vile armor of the Crimson Guard.

Often raging in the face of graying moral quandaries, she let her ax do the thinking. In her chaotic pursuit for righteousness among the vengeance-focused teachings of the forest, she quickly earned herself the nickname "slave killer".

Muspella suffered many tragedies during her time in the party. While some were of her own doing; such as the damnation of her father's soul before it could be reborn to seek redemption and absolution. Others were due to the machinations of the Blight Sisters. Her mentor and adopted father Gerald Stumpton has been taken over by Betrayal's dark weed, and while under her sway he executed Muspella's budding love; Ash.

However, there was no foe more dangerous to Muspella than her own impulses. Before she could learn that Remi discovered a cure for the dark weed that afflicted Gerald, she wandered away from camp in the dead of night... and was never seen again.

Hadriana and Remi would later learn of her passing by the wailing of a banshee.

Commit message:

Update Character “muspella-stumpton-annabelle-lee” (#129)
Automatically generated. Merged on Netlify CMS.

content/characters/muspella-stumpton-annabelle-lee.md, after:

---
thumbnail: /img/muspella-token.png
name: Muspella
subtitle: Profaned, Slave Killer, Adopted daughter of Gerald Stumpton, Barbarian
  of Wolf Grove
type: pc
status: dead
metaDescription: Muspella was part of the original party, but fate had other
  plans and she perished under mysterious circumstances.
---
Found as a baby by Gerald Stumpton, Muspella was raised in the ways of the Barbarian. 

While Gerald, and many in the forest, believed her unusual features were a blessing of the forest, Muspella had a darkness within her that made her rage especially raw. Her training was often less about learning to express her rage, but to harness and direct it productively.

It wasn't until her naming day, during a Vision Quest, that the truth of her heritage as one of the profane began to reveal itself. The result of her true parents (Adam and Willow Lee) combined evil deeds. For it was her parents, a mage and a tempter demon, that created the vile armor of the Crimson Guard.

Often raging in the face of graying moral quandaries, she let her ax do the thinking. In her chaotic pursuit for righteousness among the vengeance-focused teachings of the forest, she quickly earned herself the nickname "slave killer".

Muspella suffered many tragedies during her time in the party. While some were of her own doing; such as the damnation of her father's soul before it could be reborn to seek redemption and absolution. Others were due to the machinations of the Blight Sisters. Her mentor and adopted father Gerald Stumpton has been taken over by Betrayal's dark weed, and while under her sway he executed Muspella's budding love; Ash.

However, there was no foe more dangerous to Muspella than her own impulses. Before she could learn that Remi discovered a cure for the dark weed that afflicted Gerald, she wandered away from camp in the dead of night... and was never seen again.

Hadriana and Remi would later learn of her passing by the wailing of a banshee. It is largely assumed she met her end in battle within The Black, perhaps lured away by Gerald Stumpton... but no sign of violence was found, nor has her body been recovered.
